(upbeat music)
Let's talk about the folders
that are in here before we make some pages.
So quickly we've got VS Code,
that's where your Vs Code settings go.
Node modules, that's where our dependencies
are installed to.
You'll never have to go in here
that's just under the hood as I like to say,
there is a public folder and this is the directory
as Gatsby is building itself.
And eventually when we go to deploy
and we run build on Gatsby
that's where it's gonna go.
So you may see a bunch of stuff in there,
don't go in there yourself.
If you ever need or having trouble with Gatsby,
you can just delete this public folder
and it will regenerate.
And that's the same thing as running Gatsby clean.
We'll talk about that a bit.
Now we've got two folders here, we've got source and static.
Static is where you put files
that you simply just want to be served up.
Like it's a regular HTML and
that's for use for things like favicons.
Almost always, you don't wanna put stuff in static,
even if it's an image or a font
or some CSS that you need to load.
And the reason behind that is
because we don't wanna reference or import any
of these images or CSS or anything
into Gatsby just by their static path.
But you're gonna hear me say
this a lot through this course,
and that is everything must go through Gatsby.
Meaning that everything must be imported through Gatsby.
All of our CSS, all of our images, all of our JavaScript,
and by importing it through Gatsby, Gatsby knows about all
of your assets and is able to do a lot of
those kinda neat things around performance and speed.
So, think twice about before you put anything
in the static folder.
And then we've got the source folder,
and this is where most of the Gatsby will live.
The only folder in here that is Gatsby specific,
is the pages folder.
And that's where we're gonna put all of our pages.
The rest of the folders I've just made them up.
And this is pretty common layout
for people building Gatsby websites,
but there's nothing special about any of
these folders other than that's where I like
to put things except for pages.
Pages is special in Gatsby.
So assets, that's where I like to put my fonts
and different images that I'm going to be using.
You'll see here, I've got like this background SVG and
these stripes SVG is used for our design.
Components is gonna be a folder
where we're gonna put things like our nav
or our order button or any special react components
that we make go in their.
Pages are actually top level pages
like the about page, the order page.
Styles is where we stick our styles.
And you'll see me, we'll talk about styles in a bit
let's keep that at that.
Templates is where we're going to, it's similar to pages,
but they are gonna be reusable for things like pagination.
And then utils, that's where I'm gonna stick things
like little functions like format, money and whatnot.
So pages in Gatsby are,
they can be dynamically generated.
We'll talk about that in a bit,
or they can be done based on file system routing.
Meaning that if you go into your pages directory
and you make a new file and you create an index.JS,
I almost put HTML there.
This is going to be the page that shows up
when somebody visits.
Now, instead of doing like a paragraph tag that says,
"Hey, what we need to do is export a function
from this file, and that will be rendered out to the page."
Now in any Gatsby page,
you first must import React from 'react'.
And that may not be true for very long
at the time of recording we still have to,
but there's a pull request in that,
the fact that you have to import react
into every file is kind of annoying,
and that's not a Gatsby thing, that's a react thing.
And that might not be true for long.
Then what we do is we make a function
and you can call this whatever you want.
What I like to do is I always like
to name it the thing that we are making.
I'm gonna call this home and then put page on the end.
And then from that function, we will return
something, let's return a div.
And you're gonna see me doing this a lot or I type div
and then I hit a little key combo and that expands it all.
That's using something called Emmet in VS Code.
And essentially what it is if you type div,
and then you open up your command pallet,
it's command Shift + P,
and then you type emmet expand abbreviation.
That will expand it out.
Now, if you look at that again,
you'll see that there'll be,
there might be a keyboard shortcut associated with it.
I specifically have set mine up to be Control + E to expand.
Sometimes it works with just hitting tab at the end,
but it's inconsistent for me.
So, I won't go into that any further.
If you want, you can look into
how do I set up a expand abbreviation shortcut for myself,
but that's what I'm doing there.
Then inside of that, I don't know.
Let's just do a paragraph that says,
"Hey, I'm the home page."
Now, the last thing we need to do here is that
this function has to be exported from this file.
Now, all of your Gatsby files with an exception
to a couple that I'll talk about in a bit,
they are just ECMAScript modules, meaning that
you can export things from them.
And Gatsby is assuming that the main export,
the default export from a page will be what
is rendered when someone visits that page.
So if we just put export default in front of it,
that will then be rendered out.
So we wrote our first page here.
Now what we need to do is actually start our Gatsby build
and be able to see it in the browser.
In order to do that, we wanna make sure we're
in our Gatsby folder, not in just the main folder,
not in the sanity folder, in the Gatsby folder.
And if we look at our package json,
you'll see that we've got a couple of scripts here.
We've got build,
we have develop, start, serve, clean,
and then some other netlify things we'll talk
about when we get into serverless functions and deploying.
So the one that we are going to be doing is running develop.
And this puts us into our live reload mode.
So we can get this really slick feedback
and really quick development.
So to start that I just like to type npm start,
and that will in turn, just run npm develop,
but I like npm start 'cause it's nice and short.
So you run it.
You'll see it runs npm develop
that in turn runs Gatsby develop.
And after a quick second,
it should pop up a local host URL for us.
Here we go, it says, you can now view
your Slicks Slices front end in the browser
at local host 8,000.
And then there's this other thing called graph QL,
which is the...is how we're going to source our data.
So we'll remember that URL for the future.
But now we just wanna open up the local host 8,000.
There we go.
"Hey, I'm the homepage."
Why did that work?
Because we've created a page
and our page is a directory called index JS just like HTML
and it's rendered out when you go to the homepage.
Now what's cool about that is
if you do something like E and then give it a save,
it will automatically be re-rendered.
That's called hot reloading
and it's hot reloaded on the page.
And there's nothing that we need to do.
We don't have to toggle over
and refresh the browser.
We can almost always just stay in our editor here
and the pages will be live reloaded.
Now, if we go to a page that doesn't exist,
like four/wes,
you'll see this Gatsby JS development,
there is no page yet at four/wes.
And there also is no 404 page.
So by default, Gatsby will
just render out a 404 page for you,
but it's likely that you wanna render out
your own 404 page.
So we'll go into our pages, we'll make a new file,
call that 404.JS.
And we'll do the exact same thing.
You are gonna get copy pasting
'cause this happens all the time,
but let's write it one more time just to get practice.
So import React from 'react',
and then we want to export default function.
And we're gonna name that function a FourOhFour.
The reason why I didn't call it 404
is you can't start functions with numbers.
So I'll just call that FourOhFour page.
And the name of this thing doesn't
really matter all that much,
but it is useful when we get
into the react developer tools and start to debug it.
So I recommend giving it something meaningful.
And then in here we'll just return.
I just return that paragraph,
"Hey, that page doesn't exist."
And we go back here and refresh
and oh, no I'm wrong about that.
So even though we created our 404 page,
it doesn't show up when you're in development mode,
because Gatsby actually gives you a helpful debugger
where you can search for pages and actually visit them,
which is pretty cool.
You can also just click this to see there.
There's our 404 page.
So when we go into production,
when we deploy this thing to a real server,
then we'll be able to see that 404 page.
So let's make the sort of the rest
of the pages that we need.
Let's scaffold them out, that's a word we use.
Let's scaffold them out.
Meaning like let's create the bare bones of all
of the pages that we need.
So we're gonna have a list of beers.
So let's call it beers.JS.
And I'm just gonna go into my index JS, copy paste it.
And I'm going to rename this to BeersPage
and we'll just call it I'm the beers page.
Cool.
And then I'm just gonna make a copy of
that and name the next one order.JS.
Let's change the order.
We'll do it again for pizzas.JS.
You notice I'm not putting capitals on these
like you'd normally would on a react component.
And the reason behind that is
because they're not reusable components.
These are single use pages.
And generally the capital are on a component,
notes that it is a reusable class in react.
So, we don't use a capital on the pages.
So order page, this one is pizzas.
And then finally we want one called slicemasters.JS.
Good, now we should be able to like go
to four/pizzas and we see it and slicemasters
and oh, we don't see it.
That's because I named it slicemaster.
Make sure you put an S on that.
There we go.
And you get the point.
We've got all of our different pages.
In the next video I'm gonna talk about,
how do we go from page to page using sort of the Gatsby way.